Welcome back in this lesson.
We're going to cover binary classification.
The previous two lessons were looked at.
Regression based problem where you are predicting continuous variable.
We looked at the classification problem as well as 10 class classification problem which is slightly
different from binary classification problem when it comes to binary classification problem.
We have a two class structure so it's either this or that zero or 1 cats or dogs.
In this case we are going to continue with the amnesty dataset with some slight variation the variation
is that instead of predicting whether it is one of the 10 digits we can convert it into whether the
digit is a 5 or not a 5.
So hence turning it from what the dual core 10 class or multi class classification problem to just a
binary class classification problem.
So let's get started.
We're looking at installing our basic libraries download the data and preparing the data.
The one thing that we do want to HD bring to mind just couple of backend features of Carrasco is that
you need to bear in mind carers by default text on what's called a channel last image data format.
The funny thing about the image war was that there are two types of channel on channel first and channel
loves the Channel 4 as basically means that the first channel is default to have the value come first
and the image rows and columns channel last will have the one comes at the end of it.
By default it is Channel last.
So this is something that we need to keep in mind.
So let's run this.
So we do need to do what's core.
If class.
I should really changed is to last.
OK.
Then this should really be channel last.
And it gives us the input shape of image.
Roll image columns then one the next step then is to convert our data into what's called the converting
it to a float rather than 0 2 5 4 5 and unsigned integers.
And this is the part that I was talking about.
If it is not digit 5 then Y is converted to zero evidence digit 5.
Then why target is converted to 1.
I'm going to skip this right now.
Our y value is in the form of integer 64.
That's it now for sufficient for our use rather than having to convert it to float 32.
Let's come to the network architecture.
We have the first layer being flatten followed by a dense layer with 128 neurons had the activation
function we're using is really two and then we have another dance function with two class specifying
one basic mean 0 or 1.
And finally our activation function instead of a sigmoid which generate probability is now that was
soft makes now as sigmoid sigmoid is basically default to either 0 or 1.
And while we're running that we have the model of summary that's going to be printing out the model
architecture and I'm going to run these are the backgrounds that we don't have to wait for it to run
and the optimizer we use is the simple stochastic gradient descent and the loss here instead of the
sparse
categorical chaos entropy.
You are using binary cross entropy because we are.
We only have a binary system of binary class here.
And finally we also put in the accuracy here.
So this is the architecture.
We have three layers the input layer that hidden densely and finding the output which is just out with
the output shape of one moving down here.
We are splitting our training data.
Furthermore into chain validation and test this is something there will be more and more prominent as
we are going for right now we're just keeping it really simple.
The first fifty thousand is going to be used for training the remaining 10000 meaning from 50000 fifty
thousand and one do a sixty thousand debt ten thousand will be used for the purpose of validation.
This allow first and allow the algorithm to actually continuously tune the model will be trained using
the training data and then the validation will be used to validate.
And if this is to avoid the over fitting problem that we've mentioned before we also don't want to touch
the test data because if you're touching the test data technically supposed to be only touch ones at
the end of your model.
If you're tested then you what you have done is actually you allow your model to peek into the answer
already.
So really what you want to do is actually set aside some of your training data for validation to verify
that your model hasn't been all the fitted then run the test on the test data for one last time.
So we're doing it for the validation as you can see here the first 50000 is for training as we need
to train underscore one and then 10000 for validation.
We'll run these.
Now this is the actual training itself.
We need to provide Angus probably.
Why.
How many epochs which we have already defined here.
Twenty books and 128 is our bench to update the weight.
And finally we have this new parameter called validation data which we will be fitting in to validate
our data which is the terms of the paramount need to provide is in the form of a couple with x value
and validate early station data.
So as you run there you'll notice that there are more information than before you have to laws you have
to accuracy as before but now you have additional information which is to validation loss as well as
accuracy.
Let's go to the end of our training you will see that the accuracy is 98 and the validation accuracy
is also around ninety eight point two four so that's looking quite good.
And because they are fairly close together so that's looking at the raw data.
We can also visualize it by passing it out and when you see the plot this hour you can see our training
losses continuing to decrease and the validation lost has plateaued a lot sooner.
So around here about 10 epochs the decline of the training is much faster than the validation itself.
What this is actually telling you is that we are starting to all the fit our training data.
Actually correction the validation is the lot.
That's correct validation is actually a solid line and that this training lost.
And what this is really telling you is that we're starting to over fit our training data although the
validation is still going downwards just not as fast as the training.
And that's something that we can correct by using some of the regularization technique that we've talked
about before drop out being one of them.
Right.
So let's plot the training accuracy versus the validation accuracy.
So this is from outside a different point of view.
This is plotting laws.
This is the training and also validation accuracy from Accuracy point of view is pretty much the same
picture.
The accuracy for Belfast you climbing which is quite healthy we can actually continue to train others
to actually see what the final outcomes are.
But nevertheless this is actually very useful and yeah just to summarise what we've cover and this lesson
we looked at binary classification rather than 10 class classification problem we looked at we prepared
data as before the slight variation in terms of the introduction here is what's a new feature called
The Cross back in just to check what is our image in terms of the data format we had channel last.
Or channel first.
That part is important.
Well of course we convert this from 10 class to a binary class problems.
We we looked at sigmoid instead of soft Max and we also look at as JD which for all and temper was for
something like simple architecture and simple data set like this on much.
Very very different than the other.
So core optimization algorithm the part that I do want to highlight is that if something new is the
training as well as to take validation and test data here this is where we actually have departed from
the previous lesson and this is a new concept is that the baseline is that we always keep our training
for training and then we set aside some data for validation and finally test data for the end of our
modelling development or the model development.
Thank you once again for watching.
I look forward to seeing you in the next lesson.